---
layout: post
title:      "My first CLI Project"
date:       2019-04-23 11:25:56 +0000
permalink:  my_first_cli_project
---


I believe, there is nothing impossible in this world if you have a strong desire for it. Most of my friends are developers, I was always curious enthusiastic towards programming. Even though coding is something I have never done and I never had a thought I will be doing as a career. I decided to give a try, as I know we just at the beginning of the digital evolution and the future under the fingertips of the digital engineers.  So, here I am, a Web Developer student at Flatiron school. For the past 8 weeks, I am working on my schedule readjustment, I work from 9 to 5 and I spend the rest of my day studying. I look back at my self when I started the program and to where I am right now, I cannot believe how much I progress and how fast the time fly, our first project is around the corner. It may seem that you are not ready to do it yet, but you really are! The project was challenging to me but at the same time very useful, because I was able to learn a lot of new ways how to overcome unexpected obstacles, gain new code vocabulary, and most of all - make the code work. Everything that I learned for the past weeks I successfully applied to the project.

  The task for CLI Project was to scrape information from any webpage I liked: weather forecasting page, news page, recipes of various food, anything sport related. Based on that information I created my own program. I picked the Montclair museum https://www.montclairartmuseum.org/  , I scraped the current exhibitions list and played around with that list. I created a program which could provide a user with detailed information about one or another exhibition.

  I would like to give some helpful tips for students to help them to reduce their imminent frustration on their first project. I advise you to set a local environment on your computer it is more comfortable than to work in the sandbox. If you would choose to work in a sandbox, be prepared to save your work to GitHub as often as possible because it will kick you out of program unexpectedly often. That what happened to me and it bothers a lot. My other advice, if you stuck on some issues for a long time do not waste your time contact your coach right away. Also, watch the videos where students present their CLI projects, it gives an idea of how and what you should write in your project. Scraping part of the project is very important and very tricky thing to do, you have to be very careful and more detailed oriented. Hard work and a lot of practice will help you to get better in coding. And remember "Never put things for tomorrow what you can do today". Try to keep with all the material on time.
